hi everyone uh welcome to the first core
implementations weekly sync on monday
the 12th of october 2020.
uh i am aiken brain i will be your host
we're going to go through
our high priority initiatives now other
initiatives and then questions parking
lot q a
all that good stuff so to kick this off
uh we're going to talk about upcoming
ship releases so what is upcoming
uh go ipfs still underway
no rc no rc quite yet uh
pinning services things and such to be
coming in
the next thing we talk about
incredible there's a there's going to be
a json previous release i'm
now like working full time on trying to
get iraqi's
typescript stuff over the line with him
um and as soon as that's end we will
ship a release which will include
the deprecation no the removal of
secular as well
um so that should hopefully be up this
week
next up on the list is pinning services
we couldn't talk about that yes uh
so uh sharna's tests are fun
um but no not not really getting
sharna's test to running containers that
you can have other docker containers
talk to them because circle doesn't let
you
run docker containers in the primary
uh or let you attach to remote services
from the primary container
is also fun uh so qatar is is working
through that
um we're gonna get this squared away
this week one way or another like uh
spending this much time on just trying
to get the automated testing running for
the pinning service stuff is just
uh is too taxing we got we got other
stuff to do
um uh
we had a meeting to discuss uh local and
remote
pinning like cli and http api
uh i put a link in which has sort of
my summary of where i think i conclude
where
our conclusions were um
uh jacob and lytle have already
commented which is very helpful
i still have to respond all that to
their very helpful comments
uh if you are interested in what this
what these new pin api things should
look like and how we're gonna try and
shove towards convergence between the
remote and local apis uh
please take a look um alex your your
uh input would also be appreciated
because js may want to do something
similar this will also
set up set us up for
[Applause]
success when andrew starts working
on doing
the local pinning in the data store and
go ipfs
and how to make this all work easier
[Music]
and that is pending services
secio removal is next i guess i can take
that too
uh jacob blog post is coming out
tomorrow right
yeah i need to finish writing that and
get the thumbs up
for people so maybe early wednesday but
yeah definitely
trying trying for tomorrow and once
that's out
we will then uh fire a shot across the
bow by just
like turning off sekio on the bootstrap
nodes
and seeing if anybody has not been
reading their
their you know uh github
twitter discuss anywhere we've been
yelling at them about secure removal
uh and then we'll get lots of floods
being like hey my nodes stopped working
at which point we will then say hi your
note is
like you know over a year olds please
update
there's a good reason we swear um
here's a blog post that says why we're
doing it um
and then after like a day or two of
leaving it like this we'll turn it we'll
turn it back on
for uh for a little while to help those
guys
you know be able to do a slower update
um i guess related to sec oil
uh andrew nesbitt uh is going to be do
is doing some uh
analysis on the dht as to
who is running these old nodes so that
we can maybe communicate with them
and help figure out help them figure out
how we can help them upgrade
and that is that is ongoing
which has the benefit of us making
better dht crawling stuff
[Music]
i like it maybe we can ship my raspberry
piles and
stop using this old software next up is
the rust type reverse initiative
i don't see anyone from the rust team
i think we were gonna take the off the
list because there will be no updates in
the foreseeable future
okay that sounds sensible
uh next up is jsonpro's discoverability
and connectivity
uh yes so the the pr that i had opened
last week got merged it basically now we
can find the remote realize
uh on the network using content routing
uh and this is merging the 0.30
branch for the upcoming release and for
finishing the outer relay stuff
i will work this week on a custom
announced filter function
and also a sorter in order to allow us
to
order the dials for example we want to
go first for the public addresses and
try them before going to the private
ones
and i'll be working on that this week
hopefully i'll finish it because
in the next week i will be out and yeah
that's it
sweet that
brings us to the end of the high
priority initiatives moving on to the
other initiatives
first up is improving web ui file
um yeah so uh i don't have a list on the
notes yet but uh there's a whole stack
of
uh requests to get in
um i got some reviews from alex i need
to still follow up i think some of the
patches need upgrading because things
have landed and now they have merged
conflicts
because that everything was green last
friday
so i think what to remember hopefully
soon um uh
the next one is also mine which is
typescript integration um
so last week i updated all the or i
guess one pull request
uh i got another review from alex
that i was just following up so after
this call i'll submit the changes that
were requested
so hopefully we can land it very soon
it's so close
it's so very close it's gonna be great
uh by the way alex if you'll have a
couple of minutes after the call it
would be really helped to
sync up on some of the things that were
not clear
yeah no problem
uh next up bringing npn rpfs up to date
uh there is
no update here on that uh
badger to support
all right uh so all the work for the
actual support on our site is done other
than making sure that we've updated
dependencies to
what we decided to go out with and the
couple of fixes that we require from
badger have not been put into
an actual release yet so we need to
decide if we want to wait on a release
or we want to go out with a a specific
commit
and they may they may have some
additional breaking changes that we need
to be aware of so
um it's basically we need to
decide what we uh what and when we want
to go out with
a particular badger version otherwise
we're good
another thing that got brought into the
badger 2 changes was support
for batching so that we are no longer
constrained to the limits of a single
transaction
for high volume rights and that's
something that we'll get along with this
this update not specifically related to
badger 2 support but
it will come along um and for both
badger and badger 2.
awesome
dns out of resolving in jazz is the next
thing
yeah so michael is trying to do nice
things for infra and js
makes that harder to do because we don't
have dns at a resolution
and then that chain of events kind of
sucks
so normally our text records include the
ip address
so if you recursively look up the dns
addresses you'll get the ip address of
the node
that is a problem for websockets and
webrtc star because we have to keep the
dns name
so we need to fix that that slew of
records
so the dns adder records that michael's
working on
should eventually have the quick or i
think they already have the quick
ip addresses in now and then it will
eventually have the websockets
websocket secure addresses the dns
addresses in
so we're working on adding those and
then boshko is working on the actual
resolvers
um so that we can make sure that we can
dynamically just point at bootstrap
libidbio
and get the bootstrap addresses instead
of hard coding those guys in there
so it is a process but it is happening
this week thanks to all the work for
foshko and michael on that
that's it for the other initiatives uh
so the design review proposals
anybody wants to put their idea in the
stocks and have
moldy vegetables for a minute
i mean like it's not as bad as that
okay blockers and asks
questions i've got a question who
controls the number of
travis runners that we have
anyone exactly
okay you don't have to sacrifice a goat
too and i don't want to sacrifice to the
wrong god that would be a disaster
another few will work it's going to be
terrible um i spent
making ci faster right right now
the longest job takes 15 minutes and
everything is run in parallel
um so like the whole build would take 15
minutes if we could run them all in
parallel at the same time which we need
more runners for
which is bonkers when you consider like
it wasn't too long ago the jsi previous
built
two hours uh now it takes 15 minutes
but it needs more runners in order to
parallelize it like that
don't you laugh at dean this is testing
go as well like it's running the http
client against go so we know when you
break us through
through the http
oh yeah that's that's a long time
yeah mike is that um
this is michael um no no no no
um i was just going to ask how many in
parallel would you need
i mean loads like how many you want to
run right because obviously if someone
runs a pr then it's running loads of
jobs as well
i'm just wondering like um if we could
get a because
so we're we're having a long discussion
in that pld that's that's not going to
wrap up anytime soon but basically
moving everything to actions
um and trying to standardize a lot more
of the build and test infrastructure
particularly
on the go side um and that's like a long
term thing
um but this could be something that we
looked at but it would be in action so i
really wanted to kind of understand how
many parallels
we need because there are limits on what
we get for free there but i think that
we can
just give them some money and then we'll
get more so we're just
generally just getting travis working
and it's almost working
and the only thing that's not working is
it needs a few more runners so i'd
rather
just increase the number of runners
no no no no i know yeah yeah yeah that's
definitely what you should do now i'm
just saying
in the future like i want to understand
how many that you need so that when we
refactor this we have that in mind is
one of the requirements when it's a
thursday and i'm like
my week hasn't been painful enough you
know i'm much up for now
uh sorry
burns yeah sorry about that uh i can
take a look at this it might be andy
who has permission but i can pull that
thread and i'll give you all of the
runners i can
amazing offline that would be great
um any other questions
is there a question for michael while
he's here does
ipld have any binaries does go does the
go ipld team have any binaries that they
run in ci
that is a good question that i don't
quite know the answer to
um and it may change shortly um but i
would ask
daniel and eric about that and if
there's any particular reason
why you're asking i would surface that
as well so that they can make sure that
that ends up in the things that they're
doing it's actually on daniel's plate i
think
one of his one of his things this
quarter to work on this so
the reason i was asking is mostly is
mostly because
uh our circle ci
orb doesn't really play nicely with
binaries that are not go ipfs
um libraries are all fine but because of
like magic shenanigans around plugins
it's like not really
it's causing some issues with non-go
ipfs binaries
and while i could while we could go fix
that and go with like
go through all of the sort of
al all of the bash script hacks required
uh if there was already an action that i
could just deploy
for existing go ipa for existing go
binaries that would just be easier
oh yeah no that's that's happening like
um i mean the
the current github action for running go
programs that is just like in the
marketplace daniel wrote
and he is like he actually has he's in
the loop with a couple people at github
who work on actions to like resolve any
of his go related problems
um so you know what whatever we end up
with at the end of this well
will be that simple and integrated i
imagine
okay cool
this context there was we're building a
crawler the crawler is a binary
want to make sure the binary builds and
you know does things
oh are you gonna run the crawler in
actions
no i think that would be overkill i mean
that would be cool but i think that
would also be overkill
it's really easy and fun to run crown
job actions
github just like pays for you to run
cloud craw jobs it's amazing
cool uh any other questions
nope let me move on to the parking lot
uh i see this
thing in here about ipld i'm not doing
okr's anymore
yeah i mean
[Music]
the sort of okr light thing um so we
took the opportunity to kind of think
about like what would be a better fit
in general for just how we work um and
surfacing what we do
and all of that so um a lot like the okr
process kind of has like two sides to it
one is that it's how we communicate
with the rest of the org and outside
about a bunch of things that are
happening
and then it's also kind of how we do
planning and it's never really been how
ipld does planning we
we tend to be a little bit more nimble
than an okr process we
we will shift priorities like every week
if we need to if a lot of things are
coming in that are high priority
um so things just move around a little
bit more and we we like to keep it a
little bit more fluid
um so yeah what we did instead was we
came up with a theme for the quarter
which is um
protocols over projects and we're trying
to focus more on the protocol side than
we have in the past
um and so there's a write-up about that
in the team management page but there's
also
this really cool list now of everybody
in our team and then
every single priority item that they
have for the quarter
so you know like what they're working on
right now and if something comes up we
will
on that day that that gets bumped we
will bump it we will say why it got
bumped and we will say like now this
person is working on this because it's
a higher priority um and also um one
thing that we decided to do
kind of later in the cycle was we
started putting all of the maintenance
burden that each person has
because we felt like that was really not
being captured very well and it was not
very well appreciated um so we started
to sort of add um what
what different projects people have
maintainership of that we expect like
you know not super frequent but
relatively frequent
um burden on their time as a result so i
don't know um
now you have kind of a view of what
we're doing that we update every week
um and you can go check that out on the
team management repo
um in the readme and yeah if it's if
it's a format that people like
um i would encourage you to try
something similar if you want
people not processes and working
software over comprehensive
documentation
i have a manifesto you might like to
read
so would would q1 be a good time for us
to talk about
burning go ipldc war and go merkle dag
and go ipld format
what do you mean by burn uh find every
hard drive that has it installed
and wipe it uh that might be tricky uh
considering that didn't you just cycle
out like a in ipfs instance in the
network from like 2017.
yeah that's true
um no no i i think uh like
look when as you know um the
the go epild prime stuff has reached
like a new stage of maturity
we're doing the hampton adl stuff on it
now there's some file coin work that
will is doing that's going to give us
schemas for most of the file coin data
structures and so we're going to
we're going to have like a a very new
level of maturity around globally prime
like this quarter
and so if you the moment that you
migrate to it we can stop maintaining
the old
packages um and and the same thing on
the javascript side too actually like we
gozala just finished up like his last
round of revisions and
i've just broken off a bunch of projects
to use all the new primitives so that
i'm testing them out and putting them
through some paces before
advocating that other people use them um
but we're like really close on that side
too to just
having that that can just be swapped out
now as well um and once
you know ipfs isn't relying on the old
apis anymore we're fine with deprecating
them like we
we already don't really like to touch
them um but we
do because they're dependent on so yeah
um
but yeah i mean that cycle is much more
dependent on you than on us like we
our view is that we'll we'll have to
support it as long as you're using it
and if you stop using it then that's the
the end of our support cycle as far as
we're concerned
um i would love some help uh migrating
to the new apis
from you that would be useful and it
would also mean that you could stop
supporting your stuff yeah yeah um and
also man
the uh the the depth tree is just going
to get way smaller for you way way
smaller um
i mean the new dag pb drops all of
protoboss
like we don't actually pull in any of
the protobuf dub tree anymore
um and actually rod is working on a new
dagg seaboard that's native.js so
that'll do the same thing and drop all
those native work libraries and
everything
so um so yeah there's going to be a huge
number of improvements i know that like
rockley has been thinking about that a
lot more than i have and he spent a lot
more time in the ipfs code base as he's
working through all of this
and he needs a lot of these upgrades to
happen as well for his stuff
so i think like just kind of the three
of us should coordinate that and figure
out
like exactly what the strategy is there
because yeah we don't we don't mind
pitching in at all but but also like our
familiarity with that code base is a
little
low like every time i have to jump in
there i'm like where are things
and so that's always a challenge
yeah on the go side like i
i'm happy once odot goes out to
start looking a little bit and like what
it would take to start moving to some of
the newer go ipld libraries
but my most recent interaction with them
was that it still required a little bit
of knowing how things were working in
order to optimally use them
um and if i could like hand over an
interface which was like here is the
traversal interface that's required
and here's what i need from like dagpb
or you or this is what i need from the
unix fs interfaces
and like rip out all the internals with
whatever you want
like that would be i think that would be
a good way to also
stress that the interfaces like are
actually doing
that the ipld libraries are actually
usable in the way they want them to be
usable
yeah i mean i think we're going to have
to really
kind of dig into the specifics here
because
i mean one is that when you were using
them there's probably like no
documentation either
so like but but you have to really know
how they work you probably like you
literally had to look through the code
to figure out how to use it
um and and like that is definitely
changing um because like just having
another person
on the team who's using that code and
then like documenting it as they go and
improving things
um and we have way more example
libraries using them now as well
so like there's other code that you can
look at that uses it i think that though
the the way that the apis and interfaces
are structured
is very different from the old system
and so there's a degree to which like if
you're
if you're porting over if you're
migrating over and you don't want to
take on a sort of larger refactor that
makes it more congruent with this new
interface style
there it may be actually really
difficult to do that and
what we may want to look at is like okay
is there some library that we sort of
put in between that that makes this a
little bit easier
is there some kind of utility library
that we use or um
is is there like another refactor of
some of the
stuff that go ipfs wants to do anyway
and so in that refactor you would just
make it more congruent with our library
um there's a lot of options that we can
take and you're gonna have to kind of
dig in through the code i know
at one point um really early on peter
and eric had started to kind of go
through this and just look at the depth
tree and where all the ipld libraries
are and how they interact and what you
would kind of have to do to start to
break them apart
um and i that that got to the point
where like okay we're ready to do
something and then all the priorities
shifted and none of this happened
so uh we would need to like return to
that um
but i mean we're in a much better place
to do that than we were before
um so that's really good news and um if
you're
not you're talking about really doing
this until q1 it'll be
much much better even then um because
we're doing so much stuff right now
um with them so
yeah that is that is very helpful to
know thanks cool
i think that brings us almost to time um
thanks for coming everyone
uh this has been the ipfs confrontations
with you sync for monday the 12th of
october 2020 please fill in
your async updates uh some people do
read them
um i've been doing it recently i'm very
naughty i'm gonna start doing it again
because
alex bad alex anyway uh thank you very
much for coming uh
be safe don't touch your face there's
still a pandemic happening
see you on the internet bye